# ParkingSpaceDetectionandCounting

The Parking Space Counter using OpenCV and Python is a creative solution that counts the number of open parking spaces in a parking lot using image processing methods. The system takes pictures of the parking lot using a parking spot camera feed and then utilizes computer vision algorithms to find cars in each parking place. The algorithm counts the number of open parking spaces by identifying the edges of the cars in the image. Python and OpenCV, two widely used programs for image processing and computer vision, are used to build the system. By offering real-time information on available parking spaces, this solution can aid in reducing traffic congestion and improving efficiency in parking lots.


We need to use the libraries OpenCV and cvzone and Pickle and numpy. Installed in the pycharm editor. We create a function mouseclick; using events function in Python we create an event for left and right clicks for the mouse. For right-click, we create a delete functionality; for left-click, we create a draw-a-box functionality. Here pickle comes as a file manager; it reads and writes the positions and updates every change. We update every position to an array. we marked all the boxes of parking spots.
For the next file, main.py file. First, we loop the video for this project but, in reality, we use live feed; the main theory for the project is to convert the video to binary video, then threshold the video. We look at the edges and detect if a parking space is empty. If there are too many edges, we can say there is a car present at the parking spot.
We convert the image from the video to grayscale using cv2 and then blur the image using Gaussian blur. The threshold image and video detect the edges, then remove noise by using median blur and dilate the video to make the pixels big. From the edges, we can detect the number of pixels like in . From the video in this project, we observed that 850 is the upper limit for empty parking spaces. Above the 850 is a car in the parking lot. Now using this data, we can get the number of parking spaces that are empty
 
